Name: Omar Ozgur
ID: 704465898
Date: 02/12/2016
Lab Section: 3
TA: Lauren Samy

*** Assignment 6 ***

Homework Answers:

1) Based on the method that we were using to connect over a network, data
would first be securely transmitted by using the receiver's private key to
encrypt a message, and the receiver would use their own public key to
decrypt their message. Once the server and client verify each other, a
session key agreed upon in order to speed up the encryption and decryption
process.

If someone had been observing the bytes that were transmitted across the
network, the data would still be secure, as long as the attacker could
not access the session key or the private keys that were used to encrypt
or decrypt messages. The attacker could potentially see the encrypted files,
but would not be able to view the decrypted contents.

If someone was observing my team's keystrokes, they would still not be able
to decrypt messages that were previously created for the same reasons described
earlier. However, they would be able to monitor the contents of any new files
that were being created based on keystrokes that were entered. However, if
the attacker had been watching the keystrokes while passwords were initially
being entered, they would have the information needed in order to log into
the server themselves with a false identity, and would therefore have access
to the files and keys stored on the server.

If someone had physical control of the USB device that was used to boot the
operating system, the network would not be secure. Since the attacker could
potentially view all of the keys that were being used, they could encrypt or
decrypt any files that they wanted.

2) When a file is signed, the contents of the file are put through a hash
function, and the output is signed with the creator's private key. When the
command "gpg --verify" is run, the data is decrypted using the provided
public key, and the the decrypted data is compared to the sent file in order
to ensure that that the contents of the file match the signature. This does not
verify who created the file. For example, if someone intercepted your file,
they could change the contents of the file and re-sign the file using their
own private key. One way to ensure that the file was actally sent by a specific
person would be to personally ask to see that person's public key, and see if
the key matches with the signature that matched with the sent file.
